So now we have seen how Sanity's data store in Sanity Studio looks like, but now let's see how we can put data in it.
So what you have to do first is go to the back-end folder of our portfolio and there is a thing called schemas in it.
In this, you can see that it is index.js. So here in the schemas folder, we will create our different documents.
For example, the user's document, we will create different schemas, that is, the user's schema, the portfolio form's schema.
So what will we put in the user's schema? We will put its name, email, picture, we will put these things.
And in the profile, we will send all the data of the profile form. And in index.js, we store this thing there, so you will know everything.
So what we have to do first?
We have to go to sanity.cli.js and there you will be given a project ID. You have to copy it.
And after this, one more thing, we need one more thing to use Sanity right now.
That is a client file and an API token.
So these things are needed because whenever we call Sanity, we will call using the same client file.
Whether we have to delete, create, or do anything with the data.
So now where will we create the client file?
To create the client file, we will go to our main folder, which is the main folder of our project, that is, this one.
Which one? This folder.
So in this folder, in the source, what will we create in the source?
In the source, we will create client.js.
So we will create a file here by doing client.js.
Client.js.
Now in client.js, we will put these things here.
You will be able to see this.
You have to put this thing in client.js.
What is this thing?
This is basically the client file of Sanity.
So here we have to give the token and project ID and all these things.
So for now, we will put the project ID in the env.
So that is why we have used env here.
So let's go to env and we will write here.
We will make one below.
By Sanity project variable.
Sanity project.
And what else did we do here?
Project OK ID.
And in this, we will put our project ID.
What is your project ID?
This is our project ID.
Okay.
So after this, this thing happened.
And what is the second thing?
Our API token.
For token, we have written white Sanity token.
So we will copy it.
And this is done.
But the API token we have, Sanity token,
where will we get it?
So what do you have to do for token?
You have to go to your browser.
And after going to the browser,
here you have to go to this Sanity.io,
which is the studio, I mean.
In this, you have to go to the project in which we have made your back-end portfolio.
After going to that, you have to go to API.
This is API.
And after going to API,
you have to go to create webhook here.
As soon as you go to create webhook,
so after this, what do you have to do here?
Basically, I think, okay, okay.
So here we have to give a name by doing portfolio.
By doing portfolio, we will give a name.
We will save it.
Okay.
And the URL is hostname.
I think it was not here.
Let me check.
Okay.
Sorry.
So what is this?
Add API token.
Okay.
So here we have to give the editor's permission.
And access to deploy Sanity Studio and GraphQL APIs to our hosted services.
Okay.
Now, we will give it a name.
As we are giving here.
What?
Portfolio.
By doing portfolio, we will give a name.
And we will save it.
And as soon as we save,
your API token,
this thing,
you will copy it.
This token is very private.
Here, using the token,
Sanity determines that you are the real user.
So this token should not be leaked anywhere.
Okay.
We copied it.
After copying,
we will go to our code.
And after going to the code,
we will save it in .env.
So our token is saved here.
Okay.
Now, after this,
we will go to the browser once again.
And here we have to do one more thing.
Which is,
we have to add the course origin here.
We add the course origin because,
so that we can tell that,
this service,
from where the request will come,
that is us.
And there is no one else,
who is trying to request us.
So here we will write,
localhost http localhost 5173.
Okay.
This is one.
And after this,
should this origin be allowed?
Should this origin be allowed to send
authenticated requests with a user token session
if you are hosting something?
Okay.
So after this,
you save it here.
And again,
you have to add one more origin.
And here we will add another origin,
that is our localhost.
Save.
We have not yet deployed it,
so we are just adding localhost.
But when we deploy it tomorrow,
then what will we put here?
We will put the URL of our website here.
So here I could not give this permission.
So in a minute,
I will delete it and once again,
you know,
I will do it quickly.
Okay.
http localhost.
Now we will do allow credential.
And then save.
Okay.
After this,
our everything is set.
Now you do not need to come here again.
So now we go back.
And after this,
our client file is set up.
Now you forget it.
And after this,
we have to come back where?
On our portfolio backend folder.
And after coming here,
you have to go into schemas.
You have to come here in index.js.
And you have to create a new file in schemas first.
You will name it
user.js.
You will name it user.js.
And here we will make the data of our user.
Now what is that?
I will show you.
We will write something like this here.
This thing.
I have given you this thing in the code section.
It is quite easy.
I will tell you what we have done.
Basically,
what we have done is,
we have created a document.
Now what is a document?
You will also know that very well.
We have given the name of this as user.
We have given the title as user.
That is,
I will show you this very well once.
You will know it very well.
We go to our index.js.
And here we have to import too.
Whatever schema we make,
we first import it here.
So import user.
You have to import something like this.
And then you have to put it in here.
User.
Now I will show you what we did.
We went back to our browser.
And you just saw what happened.
You saw what happened.
What did we do now?
Now he was writing something here that
no document is created.
But as soon as we made a username over there,
schema,
you just create a document by using user in the content.
That is,
As soon as you click on it, you will see that something has been created here and when you click on the edit button, you will see these fields.
Did you understand what happened? What happened is that the user.js schema that we had created, we had put a field in it, name, user email, user name, picture.
So we have made a schema there. Now we can put some things in these schemas.
So we have basically made a document here.
We have put a user here. We have given a title user. There is no difference in the title. The title is only for us to see.
That is, what is written here, capital user, capital you, right? And after that, here is the capital user, capital you, capital you.
So this is just the name that we can see. Basically, the main thing that works for us is with this name, name and type.
Okay, so by using this name, we can see this name.
We will put data in it and we will retrieve the data from there.
So if we say from sanity that sanity, bring me this field from the document named user, user name.
What will sanity do? Now he knows what he is saying, so he will bring it and give it to you.
Okay, so this is our user.js.
Now, just like this, in the schema, we will make another thing, which is profile.js.
Now we had made user.js to store login data.
To store the user's login data.
So the profile.js that we will make, we will make it to store the data of the user's portfolio form.
So this thing is also given to you. You copy paste this thing here.
So basically, this is also the same. We have given the name by profiling it.
And what will be stored in this? User's email, first name, last name.
And the first thing, you can give any name here, any title, it depends on you.
So we have given something like this, so it should be meaningful basically.
Profile, picture, about, work experience, skill, skill 2, skill 3, skill 4.
We have taken 4 skills from the user, we have taken 4 skills from the user.
We will take the input from the user here.
We will go to our index.js and we will import the profile in this way.
Import profile.
And in this way, we will also export the profile.
And we will save this.
After saving, we will go to our sanity once.
And here you will see that a profile has also been created.
A profile has also been created.
As soon as you press in profile, right now we have not sent any document in it.
Because we have not made anything yet, basically.
We have not done anything in the user either.
We have specified in the code that insert this thing in the user.
But yes, we can see the fields by pressing this button.
If you press this button, you will know what are the fields in it.
User email, first name, last name, we will store all these things of the user here.
It will write to you here.
Ok.
After this, one more thing.
As there is a theme by doing profile.
Here user email, if you save the data of any person, then you will get to know through user email.
That is, the profile section here, if any person's data is stored here,
then his email will be written here.
And as soon as you click in his email, his whole data will come.
Ok.
Because we have specified this at the top of the profile.
User email.
So according to user email, data will be shown.
And in user.js, the username is written at the top.
So there we will see the username.
Here.
Here you will see the username.
If you click in the username, then the data of that user will come.
Ok.
After this, now we have made these things.
That we have made profile, user, all these things.
Now what we have to do?
First of all, we will go to our login page.
After going to the login page, you remember that we have stored the data here.
Where have we stored the data?
We have stored the data in the user info object local storage.
Ok.
So now we will not want our data to be saved in the local storage.
Yes, we will want it to be saved in the local storage.
But now we will also want our data to be saved in our backend.
We also know that how many users we have.
So what we will do for this?
Here, in the use effect, we will now create the document of sanity.
Ok.
We will create the document of sanity.
User document.
So what you have to do to create the document?
Here.
In the use effect.
Just below local storage.
Here you will see one thing.
const doc equals to.
Now here we will create an object.
The first thing in the object will be the id.
Now in sanity, any data you store.
Any data you store, you have to give a unique id to that data.
Now from where will you give a unique id?
You will give a unique id.
Here you will remember, that in local storage, we have stored something by doing a sub.
You might remember it properly.
If not, then I will show you.
That our.
That our website.
In this, we have put a sub in local storage.
Here you can see.
Can you see?
We said that it is unique for all the IDs.
So this thing, we will use as an id.
Because it is necessary in sanity.
To specify an id.
when we create an object
so
now we will use this sub as id
so what we will do here id
underscore id underscore is necessary
and here we will write user info
dot
sub now what is user info
now i will tell you what is user info
which we have set here
you will remember after success
we have stored user info here
we will remove sub from inside
second thing is type
now what is type
type will be
your user
in which data set
in which schema
you have to save this data
so we will save it in user schema
so do you see our user.js
we have to save in this
in this document
you have put type user
after this user name
you will remember
inside user we have made user name
we will write user name
what is our user name
user info dot
name
inside user info there is a name
in that
and user email
user
email
what is user email
user info
dot email
ok in the same way
one more thing is user picture
user picture which we will remember
which gives us a google link
we will store that too
and inside user.js we have defined
user picture user email
what is user picture
user info dot
user
info dot picture
nice
now what we have done
we have done nothing
we have made an object
named doc
and inside that we have specified some things
like id type user name
user email user picture
now what we will do
now we will call the client of sanity
and we will push it from sanity
so as soon as all these things come to him
he will immediately store it in sanity
how will that thing be
that thing will be something like this
let me tell you
here
I will clear these things
and I will show you
see this
what is this
if not exist
there is a function of sanity
now what is client
client is our file
so we have to import it
so what will we do to import it
control space
and we have imported the client file
this client file is needed
whenever you create an object
create a document
you write client dot create if not exist
if the user of this name does not exist
already all these details
do not exist in the user
if the user of this name has been created once
then you will not want that
if he comes to login again
then he should be saved again
you will want that
that document should be saved only once
you will not want to save that document 100 times
so you will write create if not exist
what does this do
it creates the document only once
if that user is not already created
ok
and what did you give in this
in this function you gave doc
what is doc this document
then it will send a request
it will ask you to create the document
and as soon as the document is created
it will store the response in the result
and it will print
that the document is created
if it was already
otherwise it is already present
and we
the response will return us
what all things it has stored
so we have printed it
and as soon as the object is created
sorry as soon as
the document is created
the user goes to forward slash
so what used to happen
it used to save in local storage
but now we have said that
after the document is created
it is going to forward slash
ok
now we do one thing
now we go to our website
and we first log out
we are done from here
we have logged out
now we do continue as techy
and as soon as we do this
we do control shift i
we also see the console
so you will see here
as soon as the document is created
we have come
we have come to our portfolio page
and now what we do
we go to sanity
as soon as we go to sanity
a person named techy recon
has come inside the user
as soon as you click on techy recon
you will see all the details
user name, user email, user picture
everything has come
inside techy recon
you can understand
how easy it is
you did nothing
you just set up the client file
and just created the document
using its function
you created the document
using this function
and now you can fetch it from anywhere
it is right here
I will also tell you how to fetch
so now our login
is set up
now after this
we will add some more things
so now we have set up the login
now we will go to our main page
and in the main page
we will verify
what we did till now
that the user is logged in
and we were checking everything
with local storage
so to make it more strong
we will check sanity
we will say that the email in local storage
and the email in sanity
is it the same
if it is the same
then the user is verified
so now we will see
how it works